[node-manager] NodeGroup priority examples (#3138)
deckhouse/deckhouse: modules/040-node-manager/docs/FAQ.md

```

{% endraw %}

### How to use NodeGroup's priority feature

The [priority](cr.html#nodegroup-v1-spec-cloudinstances-priority) field of the `NodeGroup` CustomResource allows you to define the order in which nodes will be provisioned in the cluster. For example, `cluster-autoscaler` can first provision *spot-nodes* and switch to regular ones when they run out. Or it can provision larger nodes when there are plenty of resources in the cluster and then switch to smaller nodes once cluster resources run out.

Here is an example of creating two `NodeGroups` using spot-node nodes:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
kind: NodeGroup
metadata:
  name: worker-spot
spec:
  cloudInstances:
    classReference:
      kind: AWSInstanceClass
      name: worker-spot
    maxPerZone: 5
    minPerZone: 0
    priority: 50
  nodeType: CloudEphemeral
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
kind: NodeGroup
metadata:
  name: worker
spec:
  cloudInstances:
    classReference:
      kind: AWSInstanceClass
      name: worker
    maxPerZone: 5
    minPerZone: 0
    priority: 30
  nodeType: CloudEphemeral
```

> 
> The [priority](cr.html#nodegroup-v1-spec-cloudinstances-priority) field of the `NodeGroup` CustomResource allows you to define the order in which nodes will be provisioned in the cluster. For example, `cluster-autoscaler` can first provision *spot-nodes* and switch to regular ones when they run out. Or it can provision larger nodes when there are plenty of resources in the cluster and then switch to smaller nodes once cluster resources run out.
> 
> Here is an example of creating two `NodeGroups` using spot-node nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The [priority](cr.html#nodegroup-v1-spec-cloudinstances-priority) field of the `NodeGroup` CustomResource allows you to define the order in which nodes will be provisioned in the cluster. For example, `cluster-autoscaler` can first provision *spot-nodes* and switch to regular ones when they run out. Or it can provision larger nodes when there are plenty of resources in the cluster and then switch to smaller nodes once cluster resources run out.
> 
> Here is an example of creating two `NodeGroups` using spot-node nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, `cluster-autoscaler` will first try to provision a spot-node. If it fails to add such a node to the cluster within 15 minutes, the `worker-spot` NodeGroup will be paused (for 20 minutes), and `cluster-autoscaler` will start provisioning nodes from the `worker` NodeGroup.
If, after 30 minutes, another node needs to be deployed in the cluster, `cluster-autoscaler` will first attempt to provision a node from the `worker-spot` NodeGroup before provisioning one from the `worker` NodeGroup.
```

```

{% endraw %}

> ### How to use NodeGroup with priority?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Prioritizing node provisioning using NodeGroup's priority
```

You can use the `priority` field in the NodeGroup CRD to specify how to order the cluster nodes.
For example, you can try to order the spot-nodes first, and if they run out, the regular nodes. Or you could try to
to order larger nodes first, and if the cloud resources are exhausted, to order smaller nodes.

An example using a spot-node:

Create 2 ng:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
kind: NodeGroup
metadata:
  name: worker-spot
spec:
  cloudInstances:
    classReference:
      kind: AWSInstanceClass
      name: worker-spot
    maxPerZone: 5
    minPerZone: 0
    priority: 50
  nodeType: CloudEphemeral
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
kind: NodeGroup
metadata:
  name: worker
spec:
  cloudInstances:
    classReference:
      kind: AWSInstanceClass
      name: worker
    maxPerZone: 5
    minPerZone: 0
    priority: 30
  nodeType: CloudEphemeral
```

> In this case, cluster-autoscaler will try to order a spot-node. If it fails to add a node to the cluster within 15 minutes, then
> ng `worker-spot` will be paused (for 20 minutes) and cluster-autoscaler will start ordering nodes from ng `worker`.
> If another node is needed after 30 minutes for the cluster load, it will again try to order from ng `worker-spot` first and only then from ng `worker`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [priority](cr.html#nodegroup-v1-spec-cloudinstances-priority) field of the `NodeGroup' CustomResource allows you to define the order in which nodes will be provisioned in the cluster. For example, `cluster-autoscaler` can first provision *spot-nodes* and switch to regular ones when they run out. Or it can provision larger nodes when there are plenty of resources in the cluster and then switch to smaller nodes once cluster resources run out.

Here is an example of creating two `NodeGroups` using spot-node nodes:
```

> If ng `worker-spot` reaches its maximum(5), then nodes will be ordered from ng `worker`.
> The node templates(labels/taints) for ng `worker` and `worker-spot` must be the same or at least must be suitable for the load that triggers the cluster growth process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the `worker-spot` NodeGroup reaches its maximum (5 nodes in the example above), the nodes will be provisioned from the `worker` NodeGroup.

Note that node templates (labels/taints) for `worker` and `worker-spot` NodeGroups must be the same (or at least suitable for the load that triggers the cluster scaling process).
```
